# Comparing Logistic Regression and Long Short-Term Memory Performance for Sentiment Analysis

One of the most notable projects to study Artificial Intelligence is sentiment analysis. As the name states, sentiment analysis is a process of comprehending the sentiment of a text and cat- egorizing it into two groups: positive or negative sentiment. In other words, sentiment analysis aims to predict whether a text has a positive or negative bias. This project is presented with a data set that consists of 4000 different review texts. Each review text is listed together with their corresponding sentiments in a binary form, in which 0 indicates negative and 1 indicates positive sentiment. This project aims to perform a sentiment classification on the data set to predict whether an unseen review text has a positive or negative sentiment. Furthermore, this project requires using two different machine learning algorithms to compare their performance through four metrics: accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 score. These metrics will be used to determine which method produces the best result.

After conducting several experiments, it was found that both logistic regression and the LSTM model produced similar levels of accuracy. However, logistic regression was determined to be the more suitable choice for this project due to its faster training time in comparison to the LSTM model.

One possible cause for this phenomenon may lie within the nature of this project’s data set. Although it may sound plenty, analyzing the sentiments of 4000 review texts using lo- gistic regression may probably be more than enough, to the point that using LSTM or other deep learning methods is exaggerated. The analogy that could describe this phenomenon is comparing the performance of a small pickup truck with a trailer when transporting a small piece of goods. The trailer is more capable in engine power and capacity compared to the small pickup truck. However, although both could transport the small goods, using the small pickup truck might be more efficient than the trailer as the small size of the pickup truck allows it to maneuver quickly, which could overtake the trailer in terms of speed. Moreover, in terms of engine power, using the trailer to carry and transport a small piece of goods may be a waste of energy. Therefore, although the accuracy differences are minimal, logistic regression may be better for this project as it is much faster to be trained compared to the LSTM model.

Another possible cause is due to the word vectorization method. The word vectorization method used for both methods are different due to how time-consuming it is for the LSTM model to train when using the TF-IDF method. Due to this reason, the utilization of word embedding methods to vectorize words for the logistic regression model was demonstrated to understand how significant the word vectorization process influences the learning model’s performance. Unexpectedly, no matter how many times the training is repeated, the accuracy score drops significantly, in which the maximum accuracy only reaches 0.5. Hence, it may be possible for the LSTM model to use the TF-IDF method and reach significantly higher accuracy in a short period of time when paired with a powerful computational device that allows it to train at high speed.
